23.08 Release Selector and Install Page Updates (#414)
rapidsai/docs: install/install.md

## Installation Troubleshooting

### **Conda Issues**
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> A `conda create error` occurs:<br/>

> RAPIDS has switched the default solver recommendation to [libmamba](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/a-faster-conda-for-a-growing-community/){: target="_blank"}, a Mamba-powered Conda solver that is [now included with all Conda/Miniconda installations](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/new-release-anaconda-distribution-2023-07-miniconda-23-5-0-and-more){: target="_blank"} to significantly accelerate environment solving. If the error below occurs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAPIDS has switched the default solver recommendation to [libmamba](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/a-faster-conda-for-a-growing-community/){: target="_blank"}, a Mamba-powered Conda solver that is [now included with all Conda/Miniconda installations](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/new-release-anaconda-distribution-2023-07-miniconda-23-5-0-and-more){: target="_blank"} to significantly accelerate environment solving. The error output shows:
```

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 ARM packages are not yet available:<br/>
Conda-forge does not yet support the minimum required glibc (2.32) for CUDA 12 on ARM. For ARM support, please use CUDA 11.

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> At the time of writing, there is no stable CUDA 12 release of PyTorch: <br/>
PyTorch currently only has nightly builds for CUDA 12.1, stable builds are limited to CUDA 11. <br/>
The installation method below may allow RAPIDS CUDA 12.0 packages to coexist with PyTorch CUDA 12.1 nightly packages if there is a hard-requirement of CUDA 12 but it is currently unsupported:
```
mamba create -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia rapids={{ site.data.releases.stable.version }} cuda-version=12.0 pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1
```

### **Docker Issues**
<i class="fas fa-exclamation-triangle"></i> RAPIDS `23.08` brings significant Docker changes. <br/>
To learn more about these changes, please see the [RAPIDS Container README](https://hub.docker.com/r/rapidsai/rapidsai){: target="_blank"}. Some key notes below:

> - `Development` images are no longer being published, RAPIDS now recommends [Dev Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers){: target="_blank"} for development

Reviewer: I don't think we can make a recommendation to use dev containers yet, since it's not available in the 23.08 release.

Reviewer: It'd be okay to say "coming soon." But probably not advisable to point to something that doesn't exist yet.

- Use [Mamba directly](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html){: target="_blank"}
- Use the classic solver by removing `--solver=libmamba` from the `conda create` command provided by the selector

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 ARM packages are not yet available:<br/>
Conda-forge does not yet support the minimum required glibc (2.32) for CUDA 12 on ARM. For ARM support, please use CUDA 11.

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> At the time of writing, there is no stable CUDA 12 release of PyTorch: <br/>
PyTorch currently only has nightly builds for CUDA 12.1, stable builds are limited to CUDA 11. <br/>
The installation method below may allow RAPIDS CUDA 12.0 packages to coexist with PyTorch CUDA 12.1 nightly packages if there is a hard-requirement of CUDA 12 but it is currently unsupported:
```
mamba create -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia rapids={{ site.data.releases.stable.version }} cuda-version=12.0 pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1
```

### **Docker Issues**
<i class="fas fa-exclamation-triangle"></i> RAPIDS `23.08` brings significant Docker changes. <br/>

> To learn more about these changes, please see the [RAPIDS Container README](https://hub.docker.com/r/rapidsai/rapidsai){: target="_blank"}. Some key notes below:

Reviewer 2: Based on https://github.com/rapidsai/docker/pull/559:

```suggestion
To learn more about these changes, please see the [RAPIDS Container README](https://hub.docker.com/r/rapidsai/base){: target="_blank"}. Some key notes below:
```

- `Development` images are no longer being published, in the coming releases RAPIDS will roll out [Dev Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers){: target="_blank"} for development
   - See cuSpatial for an example and information on [RAPIDS' usage of Dev Containers](https://github.com/rapidsai/cuspatial/tree/main/.devcontainer){: target="_blank"}
- All images are Ubuntu-based
   - CUDA 11.2 images are Ubuntu `20.04`
   - All other images are Ubuntu `22.04`
- All images are multiarch (x86_64 and ARM)
   - CUDA 12 is not yet supported when using Docker images on ARM architecture
- The `Base` image starts in an ipython shell
   - To run bash commands inside the ipython shell prefix the command with `!`

>    - To run the image without the ipython shell add `/bin/bash` to the end of the `docker run` command

Reviewer 2: Should we link the RSN (https://docs.rapids.ai/notices/rsn0030/) or issue (https://github.com/rapidsai/docker/issues/539) that outlines all of the changes?

Author: Yeah I'll link that issue, it's very thorough and easy to read (ty!)

- If the Conda installation is version `22.11` or newer, run: `conda install -n base conda-libmamba-solver`
- If the Conda installation is older than `22.11`, please update your [Conda or Miniconda to the latest version](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/install/index.html){: target="_blank"}
- Use [Mamba directly](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html){: target="_blank"}
- Use the classic solver by removing `--solver=libmamba` from the `conda create` command provided by the selector

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 ARM packages are not yet available:<br/>
Conda-forge does not yet support the minimum required glibc (2.32) for CUDA 12 on ARM. For ARM support, please use CUDA 11.

<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> At the time of writing, there is no stable CUDA 12 release of PyTorch: <br/>
PyTorch currently only has nightly builds for CUDA 12.1, stable builds are limited to CUDA 11. <br/>
The installation method below may allow RAPIDS CUDA 12.0 packages to coexist with PyTorch CUDA 12.1 nightly packages if there is a hard-requirement of CUDA 12 but it is currently unsupported:
```

> mamba create -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia rapids={{ site.data.releases.stable.version }} cuda-version=12.0 pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1

Reviewer 3: Do we want to use the `libmamba` solver here too?

```suggestion
conda create --solver=libmamba -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia rapids={{ site.data.releases.stable.version }} cuda-version=12.0 pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1
```

Author: I like standardization - committed!

## Installation Troubleshooting

### **Conda Issues**

> <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 arm packages don't exist:<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 ARM packages are not yet available:<br/>
```

Author: ARM capitalization is confusing! Happy to get a clear answer here lol (Company name is `Arm`, logo is `arm` and arch is `ARM` it seems!)

Reviewer: The rule I go by is to always capitalize ARM (which really implies ARM SBSA for us, meaning “ARM in the server flavor and not Jetson which is called L4T”) or instead say aarch64 (the proper name of the arch used by conda — less common in our docs).

> Conda-forge doesn't yet support the minimum required glibc (2.27) for CUDA 12 on arm. For arm support, please use an 11.x installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conda-forge does not yet support the minimum required glibc (2.27) for CUDA 12 on ARM. For ARM support, please use CUDA 11.
```

> <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12.0 packages don't work with stable PyTorch packages: <br/>

Reviewer: I'd be a little more defensive here because this could change at any time.
```suggestion
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> At the time of writing, there is no stable CUDA 12 release of PyTorch: <br/>
```

> PyTorch currently only has nightly builds for CUDA 12.1, stable builds are limited to CUDA 11.x. <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyTorch currently only has nightly builds for CUDA 12.1, stable builds are limited to CUDA 11. <br/>
```

> The installation method below may function if there is a hard-requirement of CUDA 12 but it is currently unsupported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation method below may allow RAPIDS CUDA 12.0 packages to coexist with PyTorch CUDA 12.1 nightly packages if there is a hard-requirement of CUDA 12 but it is currently unsupported:
```

```

> mamba create -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia cuml pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1 cuda-version=12.0

Reviewer: We want to install all of RAPIDS and not just cuML, right? Also do we want a version pinning to try and ensure that things are fetched properly?
```suggestion
mamba create -n rapids-pytorch-cu12 -c rapidsai -c pytorch-nightly -c conda-forge -c nvidia rapids=23.08 cuda-version=12.0 pytorch pytorch-cuda=12.1
```

Author: Is the install page able to access the site data like the selector? ie could I do:

`mamba ... rapids={{ site.data.releases.stable.version }} ...`

Reviewer: I don’t know. Please try it! Let’s find out.

Author: We sure can!

Reviewer: Awesome. I wonder how many places we've missed the opportunity to do this in the past... (though we have some places where it makes more sense to hardcode if the guidance is temporary and applicable only to one specific release).

- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-5-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 495.29.05 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.8](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-8-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 520.61.05 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-0-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 525.60.13 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**

 **Note**: RAPIDS is tested with and officially supports the versions listed above. Newer CUDA and driver versions may also work with RAPIDS. See [CUDA compatibility](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/index.html) for details. 

## **CUDA 12 Support**

### **Docker and Conda**

- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12 packages and images currently support CUDA 12.0
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 11 packages and images can be used on a system with a CUDA 12 driver because they include their own CUDA toolkit

> - <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> arm is not currently supported on CUDA 12 packages and images, use CUDA 11 or pip for arm support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> ARM is not currently supported on CUDA 12 packages and images, use CUDA 11 or pip packages for ARM support
```

{: .no-tb-margins }

- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.2](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11.2.0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 470.42.01 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.4](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-4-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 470.42.01 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-5-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 495.29.05 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 11.8](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-11-8-0-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 520.61.05 or newer
- <i class="fas fa-check-circle"></i> [CUDA 12.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-12-0-1-download-archive){: target="_blank"} with Driver 525.60.13 or newer **see CUDA 12 section below for notes on usage**

 **Note**: RAPIDS is tested with and officially supports the versions listed above. Newer CUDA and driver versions may also work with RAPIDS. See [CUDA compatibility](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/index.html) for details. 

## **CUDA 12 Support**

### **Docker and Conda**

> - <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12 packages and images currently support CUDA 12.0
> - <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 11 packages and images can be used on a system with a CUDA 12 driver because they include their own CUDA toolkit
> - <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> ARM is not currently supported on CUDA 12 packages and images, use CUDA 11 or pip packages for ARM support

Reviewer: I think packages/images should be extra clear (conda packages / Docker images) so that people skimming this section don't confuse anything.
```suggestion
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 12 conda packages and Docker images currently support CUDA 12.0
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> CUDA 11 conda packages and Docker images can be used on a system with a CUDA 12 driver because they include their own CUDA toolkit
- <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> ARM is not currently supported by CUDA 12 conda packages or Docker images, use CUDA 11 or pip packages for ARM support
```

**4b. Legacy Docker Users.** Docker CE v18 & [nvidia-docker2](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0)){: target="_blank"} users will need to replace the following for compatibility:
`docker run --gpus all` with `docker run --runtime=nvidia`

> <br/>

Reviewer: Question: do we need to tell users how to get into a bash prompt when using the new containers? Greg asked this when using the new containers (since they drop you into an ipython shell by default) and I think this is not obvious to a lot of folks who aren't container experts. I'm not sure what the old container default behavior was, but that'd be helpful to know if it used bash or something else when no entry point was provided. Is there a good place to include a bit of guidance like `docker run ... /bin/bash`?

Author: Maybe at the top in the troubleshooting 23.08 docker overhaul highlights?

Reviewer: That’d be fine with me. I think that’s mostly important if the old containers behaved differently. Then you could consider putting it in the “major differences from old containers” section.

Author: Added in https://github.com/rapidsai/docs/pull/414/commits/898912f4996959d4f61872c3fb3e18ab97f30066

Reviewer 2: The `Breaking changes` section of https://github.com/rapidsai/docker/issues/539 addresses many situations to get the "old" functionality back.

> ### **JupyterLab.** Defaults will run [JupyterLab](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/){: target="_blank"} on your host machine at port: `8888`.

Reviewer: It's a little awkward to make a full sentence with links/code font into a header. It seems like "JupyterLab" is supposed to be treated like "Running Multi-Node..." below, and that symmetry was broken here.

What does "Defaults will run..." mean? Do we need to specify that Jupyter only runs for the "notebooks" container?

Author: Updated in https://github.com/rapidsai/docs/pull/414/commits/3a31245cb4cd3305101b91430544afc1a06db4cd - hopefully helpful, also 10000% my assumption on what the intention was, I just thought it was better as a header and failed to hit enter to break it into a newline after **JupyterLab**

<div id="pip"></div>

## **pip**
RAPIDS pip packages are available for CUDA 11 and CUDA 12 on the NVIDIA Python Package Index.

### **pip Additional Prerequisites**
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> The CUDA toolkit version on your system must match the pip CUDA version you install (`-cu11` or `-cu12`). <br/>
<i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** x86_64 wheels require glibc >= 2.17. <br/>

> <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i> **glibc version:** ARM architecture (aarch64) wheels require glibc >= 2.32 (only ARM Server Base System Architecture is supported).

Reviewer: Is this true for CUDA 11 or only CUDA 12? (Or is this the glibc requirement from dask-sql?)

I'm surprised because Ubuntu 20.04 wouldn't even meet this criterion, because [Ubuntu 20.04 uses glibc 2.31](https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/glibc-source). That'd be very confusing, because I think ARM + Ubuntu 20.04 works fine in practice... (I haven't tested this and would like clarification if anyone knows).

Reviewer: I did a bit more research and found that CUDA 12.0.1 supports glibc >=2.28 on ARM. https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/archive/12.0.1/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html

This is my understanding from the conda-forge side of things too, I think we just need glibc >=2.28 for CUDA 12.

Author: We actually didn't make Ubuntu 20.04 images for ARM in 23.06: https://github.com/rapidsai/docker/pull/551

The issue came up during notebook testing during release, maybe overlooked for a little while but with the overhaul notebook testing gets run as part of the build so hopefully shouldn't happen again.

Reviewer: Okay, thanks for the clarification. That sounds right, it’s not just a CUDA requirement but also that bug.

Reviewer: (I mentioned dask-sql above, it’s the same bug here.)

Reviewer 3: The Dask-SQL GLIBC bug was recently fixed: https://github.com/dask-contrib/dask-sql/pull/1201
